---
layout: post
title: Binomial Distribution
date: 2024-12-22 22:25:00
description:
tags: tutorials
categories: tutorials
tikzjax: true
---

So far, we have discussed elementary properties of probabilities. These properties will underly everything we will do from now on. However, by adding some more structure, we will be able to be able to say more about the probabilistic questions. This section extends beyond elementary properties of probabilities and dives into probability models.

In this section, we begin our discussion of probability models. Each probability model is characterized by the support and the associated probabilities. With our probability models, we can  
We begin with an extremely basic concept -- that of a coin flip.

The Bernoulli distribution can result in only two outcomes -- heads or tails; true or false; life or death; 1 or 0. We say that there exists some probability $$p$$ that the statement will return true, and $$1-p$$ probability he statement will return false.

In terms of applications, a Bernoulli random variable can signify any binary outcome.

Sometimes, we are only interested in the number of successful events, and don't really care about the order. In cases like this, we must construct a new mathematical object.

Using some elementary combinatoric knowledge, we are able to count the number of events yielding some number of successes. Applying a probability to each event results in the probability mass function.

Perhaps one obvious question is how you would choose an appropriate $p$. We are unable to model a phenomenon accurately if we do not have a well-chosen $$p$$. However, we will postpone discussion of an appropriate $p$ until discussion of statistics. We simply claim that there exists some fixed $$p$$ that

The binomial distribution naturally extends from Bernoulli trials. While Bernoulli trials indicate success and failures, we are often interested in the total number of successes, and do not care about the actual order of successes and failures. While there are $$2^n$$ outcomes for $$n$$ trials, there are $$n \choose k$$ outcomes such that there are $$k$$ successes.

Consider all possible combinations of successes and failures in $n$ trials and their corresponding number of successes. The following illustrates all combinations of successes and failures in 3 Bernoulli trials and sum of the corresponding configuration.

With this observation, it is evident that the binomial coefficient in the PMF of the binomial distribution represents the number of ways to reach $$\{X=x\}$$.

Now, tabulating these sums onto a number line, we see that they take on a bell-shaped curve. Later, we will learn that the binomial distribution indeed converges towards the normal distribution.

<script type="text/tikz">
\begin{tikzpicture}

	% Draw Axis 
	\draw[very thick, <->] (-1, 0) -- (7, 0);
	\foreach \i in {0, 1.5, ..., 6}{
		\draw[very thick] (\i, 0.1) -- (\i, -0.1);
	}
	\node[] at (0, -0.5) {0};
	\node[] at (1.5, -0.5) {1};
	\node[] at (3.0, -0.5) {2};
	\node[] at (4.5, -0.5) {3};
	\node[] at (6.0, -0.5) {4};
	
	% Draw Events
	\node[] at (0, 1) {\small $00000$};
	% ---------------------------------
	\node[] at (1.5, 1) {\small $0001$};
	\node[] at (1.5, 2) {\small $0010$};
	\node[] at (1.5, 3) {\small $0100$};
	\node[] at (1.5, 4) {\small $1000$};
	% ---------------------------------
	\node[] at (3, 1) {\small $0011$};
	\node[] at (3, 2) {\small $0110$};
	\node[] at (3, 3) {\small $0101$};
	\node[] at (3, 4) {\small $1001$};
	\node[] at (3, 5) {\small $1010$};
	\node[] at (3, 6) {\small $1100$};
	% ---------------------------------
	\node[] at (4.5, 1) {\small $0111$};
	\node[] at (4.5, 2) {\small $1011$};
	\node[] at (4.5, 3) {\small $1101$};
	\node[] at (4.5, 4) {\small $1110$};
	% ---------------------------------
	\node[] at (6, 1) {\small $1111$};
\end{tikzpicture}
</script>
